with the help of our sponsor life's wave
electric toothbrush we are giving
David's extreme home upgrade machines
the full treatment I'm talking coolant
change de gunking o-ring lubrication by
the end of this you guys are going to
know how to get your liquid cooling
system running as good as new no matter
how scary it is oh my God can't believe
I just put my mouth on that what is that
we've never Revisited a $5,000 Tech
upgrade but looking at this I feel like
I should be keeping a closer eye on you
guys this is disgusting my favorite is
you can see the line where I once dusted
but then it's now been dusted over so
there's like mhm beautiful texture of
dust I might have been responsible for
this zip tie was I I think so yeah this
is kind of a roast of you I like that
no no I didn't pick the parts for this
is any water even getting through here
yeah I think the first thing we're going
to do assuming that we didn't configure
our loop with a drain Port is pop one of
our tubes in a way that oh it's easy to
catch all of the water now to ensure
that my instructions are clear and
complete we're going to have David work
on his second system while I work on the
main one you might not remember but this
is actually the second episode of lonus
cleans David's tech for free one of my
favorite tricks to clean out a loop
especially one that you're about to
clean anyway is
uh
oh my
God can't believe I just put my mouth on
that what is that was that ever
alive much
better funny note about their packaging
by the way when I first saw this I was
like wow they really ripped off Apple
packaging and then I found out they are
literally using the same
Factory assuming your Loop is not this
nasty
uh it's a quick way to get everything
drained out so that when you disconnect
your hoses they don't start leaking
water all over the place because even
once you've drained the reservoir
radiators can hold a significant amount
of water now look if you're looking at
this so far going oh my God I want to
let you know a little secret water
cooling is not necessary to have a great
gaming experience I happen to love it
it's one of my passions and if you're a
silence Enthusiast or you just like hot
rotting things for fun you might want to
take the plunge but the reality is that
the
inconvenience generally outweighs the
benefit while no one really likes
talking about it least of all the
manufacturers of aios all kinds of water
coolers can require maintenance in order
to perform their best now the additives
that they put in the coolant and the low
paracity tubing that they use in these
all-in-one Solutions should keep them
running Gunk free for many years but if
you read the fine print many generally
means something like three or five and I
know a lot of people who expect more
than 5 years of dependability from their
coolers so while we're focused on custom
water cooling some of these same
principles could be applied to an aiio
that is no longer performing its best
what's interesting is I don't see where
these flakes came from in either the CPU
or GPU block I don't know if that's
reassuring or even scarier let's see how
nasty my CPU block oh yeah oh shoot did
you get CPU temps before we started
because I didn't know it was this gross
I didn't think we were going to need
that I promise you cuz I've seen it
before that this would have a
multi-degree impact on cooling
performance basically this acceleration
plate right here the slit down the
middle of it is completely jammed and
the water that's coming into this block
is not able to get at the fins very well
it's slowing it down significantly we
need this loop Clear and we need this
block clean yuck I do have to question
the overall complexity of your setup
here David you've got the gaming machine
and then you've got if I recall the nz/
capture PC that's right
virtualization yeah the idea was that I
could game unfettered on the gaming
computer and then stream and capture at
the same time on this uh but how long
did that last not very long I went to an
older system that I had that's a little
higher end uh and I've been running that
but every time that I've needed to
upgrade or fix or change it I don't even
want to think about it I just like shove
in the back ignore it what was your
biggest mistake water
cooling and that's a really good point
almost no one has a system that has
compromised nothing on reliability and
performance whether it's a cheap HBA or
a low-end motherboard and so often I see
budget wasted on RGB or liquid cooling
that could have been spent much more
effectively elsewhere so did you learn a
valuable lesson at least David oh yeah
that lonus will fix all my problems if I
wait long enough and pitch a good video
thanks lifein for that you get the
manual toothbrush and I get the lyen so
we can do our comparisons I don't
remember ever seeing anyone else
recommend this stuff but I've always
liked Brasso for cleaning my blocks it's
compatible with Copper Brass duh
aluminum chrome nickel and it contains a
fine abrasive that helps to remove even
tough oxidation and build up to get the
Brasso off we're going to need a hit of
some other soap I guess now's a good
time to mention the IP 7x water
resistance of this toothbrush not every
electric toothbrush is waterproof one
soapy rinse
later not bad you can see around the
outside it still looks scummy but if you
look closely you see copper through it
so that's not something sitting on the
surface we've actually worn through the
nickel plating there's nothing I can do
to fix that with a toothbrush
okay so we both did pretty good but
getting into those little crevices there
there is no question that even though
mine are finer I was able to clean them
better I mean look this is not a life
end talking point you talk to any
dentist they're going be like yeah you
should probably use it like yeah because
they freaking work of course if whatever
Gunk we found in our Loop ended up being
organic we can't just clean the parts
that affect performance or it's just
going to grow back so the next part I
want to clean is this acrylic top now my
understanding is you can actually use
Brasso for that as well but you can also
use household cleaner or a headlight
polish like this one whatever you do do
do not use alcohol or it'll end up
looking like this you know I'm going to
take a shot with the Brasso and then
we'll try those Plastics stuff dang
Brasso you awesome and life and I guess
you guys help too check that out that is
really good that took 2 minutes
now that David's done a round of manual
cleaning liyen boasts that with their
app you can configure their brush to
oscillate up to 60 and it has 10 levels
of power that vibrated up to 66,000
times a minute using their proprietary
servotech they claim it's three times
more powerful than the competition so
let's see if we can take his block to
another level David I had it at like 30%
before that was plenty of power uh
okay yeah I actually have been using
using this thing for a couple of weeks
now and that's the first thing I noticed
about it it's like holy crap is this
thing ever
powerful not going to lie David
everything you did kind of a waste of
effort that's a lot better yep again
there's absolutely discoloration on the
Block but that's copper that's where the
nickel plating has been worn Away by the
erosive power of water looking great do
you think brass will safe on this
painted stuff I think this is anodized
aluminum I'm pretty sure when I looked
it up it was not but it might be let's
see Z mini z mini I mean I can find out
for you how do you find out it's
aluminum so there's but that's not even
the loop that was having the
issues it will I think this GPU block
might be a little bit wonky there's like
it's like where it's oxidized I thought
that was dirty but now I'm not have you
hit it with the toothbrush oh I've hit
it with the
toothbrush that's what happens when you
mix Metals I didn't mix the metals yeah
so it eats away at the aluminum and then
I believe it deposits on the copper on
the copper the good news is I wasn't
actually really planning on using this
card the bad news is I was planning to
sell it and now I can't really do that
now that my Block's as good as it's
going to get it's time to put it back to
get wait double check make sure a that
you've got all of your O-rings in place
because if they're not you're going to
have water shooting everywhere inside
your PC and and number two if you're a
smart boy you're going to want to give
them a quick lube before you reassemble
them we use this cinko stuff but
anything silicone not petroleum based
should do you just fine for those of you
who do Automotive work this won't be new
information but when you are
reassembling anything with a lot of
Fasteners you're going to want to go in
a star type pattern to ensure that
you're not just cranking one side
causing the oing to slip out on the
other side and then cranking that down
leaving it in a position where it's
going to CA a league oh I'm so happy
with this result I'm a little behind
David I think he's actually done his GPU
block already but you know what I say
quality first now we find out if David's
going to get some really bad news losing
a 1080 TI that sucks losing a
3080 all right I have more bad news oh I
don't like that this block cannot be
meaningfully cleaned without us pulling
out like the heat gun and undoing the
adhesive on this and ripping these two
pieces off are we doing it I think it
needs to be cleaned you saw what was in
this
Loop yeah let's do it all right the
resale value goes also this is acrylic
oh our temperature control is not going
to be great so you break my 380 what
happens well look no you're going to do
it
no I advising you as your veterinarian
that your pet needs surgery oh God if
it's you're telling me to do surgery on
my
dog I'll be there every step of the way
I don't want the
liability oh my God David what are you
doing I might have put too much Lube no
you did put too much Lube who taught you
how to do this Alex you no I did not you
said put it on your fingers and rub it
through and that's exactly what I did I
said put it on your fingers and run it
through yeah you just you didn't tell me
how much to put here that's the problem
oh my specificity Linus now I'm teaching
you how to teach who's the master
now okay well this is lubed that
little hey hey hey hey there we
go yeah buddy cuz this one's not all
corroded and stuff so you can really see
what a good job you can do with
that there you
gooo not bad huh almost as shiny as my
toothbrush we've already talked about
the numbers that are possible thanks to
the sophisticated servos with tech that
life and claims has only ever been used
in robot arms before now but it also
uses hall effect sensors to generate
consistent brushing power and that helps
it hit that 60 oscillation within an
accuracy of 0.1 de which is pretty cool
when you see the price I've been using
one for about a month now I've been
really pleased with the results of it
and I've only had to charge it once in
the entire time that I've had it you
remember your janky solution for this
pump no strip the wires and shove them
into here oh yeah and you were like
replace the cable I'm like what what
cable the
pump yeah you just take this and then
you uh you know put a mered on it and
then you get a Molex and you put a mered
on that and then you make a Molex end
for it sounds like sounds like something
that never happened no it happened I
just disassembled it for the
video oh it stinks the pump
stinks oh God that does stink it's green
is it possible that we had no bioside on
the day of the shoot and I said hey make
sure you throw some bioside in here it's
been drained and filled a couple times
so every time I move I drain it cuz this
just they're so heavy with water in it
so I think I actually did put iodine in
it the first time but not the second two
times and now he knows just in time for
him to never water cool again yeah looks
it's a little worse for the wear but the
inside is clean and for that matter so
is the back which means now is a perfect
time to replace our thermal goop it's
generally good for five plus years but
David never does maintenance and I'm not
coming back to this thing so we're going
to upgrade to the PTM 7950 phase change
thermal pads that we just started
stalking on LTT store.com this stuff
lasts a freaking long
time yeah I'm going to find a way for
you to come back to this no no the these
just came out of the fridge so that
means I need to move pretty quickly to
get it
measured right and cut if I wait too
long it's going to melt that's the phase
change part of phase change thermal pad
so why does it have to be cold when it's
installed cuz it's going to go to room
temp right away because otherwise when
you pull the plastic protective covering
off of it it rips it apart oh okay as
for the rest of our pads they're in
pretty good condition and I'm not
worried about those ones drying out over
time I guess you really are passionate
about water cooling cuz you've been in
the game since before there was PC water
cooling parts there were some okay but a
lot of people were using pumps from like
aquarium suppliers and stuff like that
back in the day there used to be a point
to it water cooling was and actually
still is the quietest way to cool a
computer but it's only quiet if you
configure it in a particular way the
average person putting an AO in their
system or even building a modest custom
Loop is not really getting the silence
benefit that I would be looking for you
need big radiators with super slow
moving fans a particular pump like it
ends up being a really big system yeah
and computers are kind of getting
smaller these days tell that to the GPU
makers got them speaking of a particular
pump this is the one the Lang D5 and its
variants are among the highest
performance and more importantly highest
reliability pumps that you can get for
PC water cooling so I've been holding
holding on to this
one for 8 years in hopes of restoring it
to its former glory you see it went
through some stuff when it was installed
in whole room water cooling all that
time ago and we had a cheap reservoir
from Princess auto rust and uh well this
this will be your greatest
challenge don't quite have enough to
submerge it okay there we go so there's
that like water filter thing right yeah
that's what it is oh no
way I have never seen that before yeah
like that's the shmoo that's the shoo it
was just a tiny little piece and I went
to pick it up and it like fell apart in
my hands it's that that that EK little
puck yeah so they've got this anti
Vortex like kind of mesh Puck thing that
is included in some of their reservoirs
and something about your system you know
I don't know that those are compatible
with
iodine oh maybe I've used iodine in my
Loops for a long time but that's not
necessarily something that EK recommends
that makes so much more sense than this
tubing which was our leading theory so
far cuz we've deployed this stuff yeah
that's dozens of times internally and
it's been great but then I mean the same
goes for those so I don't
know radiators can be a little
physically challenging to clean but the
idea is simple you just get yourself a
pair of oven mitts then you fill the
radiator with the hottest 7525 water
vinegar mix that you can handle you plug
the ends almost sealed not quite sealed
and then
shake lce what are you
[Laughter]
doing you really do want this to be as
vigorous as you can possibly handle for
as long as you can possibly
handle oh and the reason that we don't
fully seal them is that the radiator
starts cold and the fluid that you put
into them is hot and what can happen is
if it's sealed pressure can build up and
then when you go to unseal them you can
get vinegar water spraying out of it and
it's really unpleasant so we want there
to be a little bit open so that pressure
can be released as we're
shaking
[Music]
all right that's probably once it runs
clear I'd give it another blast or two
with just the hot water and then you
should be good to go now for our last
component a lot of people don't bother
cleaning and reusing their tubes but as
a certified cheap skate I do nothing
gets me going like saving a buck all you
need is a little pipe cleaner like this
you can get this at the dollar store and
then for good measure if you use
compress fittings or realistically any
kinds of fittings you're going to want
to find anywhere where the tubing's
deformed and cut that off if you had a
little bit of extra length then your
runs should still be good and you can
totally reuse
[Music]
this
[Applause]
we've soaked these Rusty Parts in CLR
for quite a long time now we're going to
try and see how much R comes
off
it's still pretty
Rusty but it's definitely an improvement
I'm back and the system looks I mean so
much better yeah a lot better you um
mounted your Reservoir a little wrong
but the uh the clamp goes on the pump
not on the it's an aesthetic Choice
good job thank you but the temps are
great check this out how long has this
game been running oh hour okay Okay cool
so let's just pop over into Hardware
info we're looking at GPU temps of I
don't know maybe
45 Hotpot temps of 56 and our CPU temps
are sitting in the neighborhood of about
55 it's pretty quiet too yeah only the
power supply is making noise okay maybe
water cooling still
cool it's uh it's definitely cool it is
but I will not do it again
that's pretty cool oh my God his
arm jeez it's fear I can definitely see
the fun immediately though oh yeah as
unrealistic as it might be wait what how
did those guys are really tough like
you'll have to slow-mo to get around
them and shoot their tanks oh all right
or I could just not I could just do the
conclusion of this video our blocks
might be clean but our toothbrush heads
are decidedly not do not Brasso then
brush your teeth thankfully The
Replacements are affordable they're
about 10 bucks for three and while there
are a lot of Alternatives actually to
what we did like an ultrasonic cleaner
or a flow cleaner or just plain old
elbow grease I'm pretty impressed at how
these worked of course the best
alternative is to optimize your Loop so
that it doesn't need as much maintenance
in the first place low paracity tubing
like ek's zmt or zero maintenance tubing
will reduce evaporation from your system
so you don't need to do as many topups
but that does nothing to prevent growth
so I always recommend distilled water
with a couple drops of bioside like
iodine to make sure that things stay
sanitary in there just make sure that it
doesn't um interact with anything else
in your Loop we don't know that that's
what happened to ek's little filter
thing but maybe it is of course none of
that stuff looks as good as the cool
tubing and colored coolant so if you do
want that
stuff it's dead anyway
cool just make sure that you configure
your system with a drain port at the
bottom and your pump directly below your
Reservoir you'll find this whole process
if you have to do it much faster and
simpler just like brushing your teeth we
have a few more things to cover for Len
their wave toothbrush lasts about 2
hours on battery and charges in Just 2
and 1/2 hours and is available in three
different configurations with this one
being the world's first aluminum alloy
electric toothbrush built from one
seamless piece it's a little specific
but hey at least there's a benefit to it
cuz you won't get any dirt build up
getting into the crevices it starts at
$70 for the plastic version and they all
have the same ergonomic handle extra
wide 60 oscillation and Powerful 66,000
vibrations per minute that mean you can
deep clean your teeth or your computer
like a pro if you guys enjoyed this
video maybe check out David's $5,000
Tech upgrade yes it was full of exactly
that kind of chaotic energy but maybe
more even h